After auditing hundreds of different
e-commerce brands and generating over
$200 million in email marketing revenue,
I can tell you that this is the one
thing that people ignore and overlook
the most. It's not your subject lines,
it's not your design, and it's not your
copy. It is your email deliverability,
which just means whether your emails
land in the main inbox or they land in
the spam folder. And if you don't have
good deliverability, you're not going to
be able to make any money from your
email list because you're just landing
in spam and no one's going to see you.
Because even the best emails in the
world do not work if most of them never
reach the people that you're sending to.
However, a lot of brands don't even know
if they're in spam and they don't even
know how to check if they are because
once results dip in their account,
they're just assuming that the strategy
is wrong. When in reality, it could just
be an issue of landing in the spam
folder. That's why in this video, I'm
going to be showing you exactly how you
can know if you are landing in the spam
folder and if you are, how to get out of
it. Before we get into deliverability,
we need to talk about what's changed
with email deliverability in 2026.
Because email providers like Google,
Apple, Outlook, and all the others are
constantly changing their rules when it
comes to inbox placement, specifically
for brands. the strategies you were
using a year ago might be completely
useless in 2026. So now there are three
major shifts that I'm seeing in 2026.
And while they may not move you straight
into the spam folder, they absolutely
should change how you approach landing
into the primary inbox. First, we have
smarter promotions tab filtering. This
is in most inboxes, but primarily it's
in Gmail. There used to just be the
inbox and then the spam folder, but now
there's a new section called the
promotions tab. And essentially, this is
Google's way of kind of filtering out
emails that could be coming from brands
or are promotions of any type. The
promotions tab is next to the main
inbox, but somebody has to click an
extra button to go to this tab. It's not
the absolute end of the world to be in
promotions, and you'll be in promotions
a good amount, but it's definitely going
to impact the amount of revenue that you
can generate. And Gmail is automatically
filtering brands and emails directly to
go to here. So, in summary, there's a
new promotions tab, and if you land in
the promotions tab over the main inbox,
you're going to make less money. So, the
goal is to go from promotions to the
main inbox. The second major shift I'm
seeing is trigger words are a lot more
sensitive. Using words like sale in all
caps or free trial are going to increase
your promotions and spam tab placement
because how Gmail looks at it is would a
friend ever send to another friend sale?
Probably not. So, it's probably going to
be a promotion and so they're going to
be much more likely to send your emails
into the promotions tab. So, you really
have to be careful with what words you
are including in your subject lines in
your preview text specifically. If
you're always doing sale, sale, sale,
open now, buy now, things like that,
you're going to be much more likely to
land there. And third, engagement
metrics matter more than ever.
Engagement is becoming clear in a way
the number one factor towards your inbox
placement. Good open rates and good
click rates are absolutely critical, as
well as reducing your spam complaint
rates. This is literally like all that
these inbox providers are looking for.
Do people like receiving your emails and
do they engage with them? If people
engage with your emails, great. They'll
send you to the main inbox. people don't
like receiving your emails, then Gmail
doesn't want their users to receive your
emails, so they send you to spam. And
something I'm seeing as a huge positive
signal are also your email replies. When
someone replies to an email, Google
interprets this as, "Oh, this person is
interacting with this brand." This can
move you from promotions into the main
inbox. And I want to touch on one more
huge change that you might have noticed
as well. Maybe you've noticed, but
unsubscribe rates are higher now than
they have ever been before. And there
was a specific update that Gmail rolled
out that is causing this to happen. So,
here inside of Omnis, which is an email
sending tool that I use, it's a great
option to house all of your data and
send your emails for a really good
price. They have a lot of different
views that other email platforms don't
have. And this is one specifically where
we're looking at email domain
performance. And what you'll see is how
many emails are we sending to these
different inbox providers. So, we have
Gmail, we have Yahoo, then Hotmail. We
can see clear and away Gmail is the
most. You see open rates, click rates
are kind of like on par, but what really
stands out are these unsubscribe rates
at 0.4. 47% when the next closest one is
0.26% and that's pretty much nobody. So
we see this huge huge huge spike in
Gmail unsubscribe rates. This is me
looking at August of last year and you
can see 0.3% compared to today where
it's 0.47%. That's more than a 50%
increase in the unsubscribe rate. What
the hell did they do? Well, if you go
into Gmail and you can do this on your
own, what you can see is you have this
easy unsubscribe button that Gmail has
added. And so if you want to unsubscribe
from a brand, you could literally not
even open the email, click unsubscribe,
and then boom, that person is
unsubscribed. And then once somebody
opens the email, they can open the
email. And again, right here up at the
top is this unsubscribe button right
here. And now I'm unsubscribed. So
that's another big shift that we need to
take into account. But unsubscribes
really don't have an impact on
deliverability. So you don't need to be
concerned about that in terms of landing
in the spam folder, but it's something
that we need to pay attention to and
adjust our email strategies for. But
before we talk about how to get out of
spam, we need to know if we're landing
in the spam in the first place. Because
your deliverability could be completely
fine one week and then tank the next and
then you're screwed. Maybe you sent a
campaign with a ton of spam trigger
words. It got a ton of spam complaints.
Maybe your engagement dropped over a
period of weeks. Or maybe Gmail decided
just to test your domain. And if you're
not monitoring these changes, you might
catch them before it's too late. So I'm
going to walk you through exactly how to
catch them. So this is the platform that
I like to use. It is called Glock Apps.
Glock apps.com. I'm not affiliated with
them in any way. It's just my favorite
deliverability tool to use. And
essentially, they have this free spam
checker and then we will send an email
from our domain and Glock apps is going
to tell us where we're landing.
Essentially, it's giving like a ton of
different emails and you send an email
to them and then it'll report back where
exactly you're landing. All you have to
do is sign up, follow their
instructions. All you have to do is go
to the inbox insights product up here
and then you're just going to want to do
a full spam test, test this out, and
then I will show you exactly what it
looks like on the inside. So, here's
what it looks like on the inside, and
this is where we're going to be able to
look at our prior campaigns and our
reports on where the emails are landing.
So, we did a test on a couple of
campaigns here. And if you go into this
reports tab, you can tell us that we
send. And essentially, you get a score
with the percentage. Uh, you can see
62.7% for one of them and 56.2% and 2%
for the other. And then once you click
onto any of these campaigns, you will be
able to see right here exactly where
you're landing. You can see 51% inbox.
You can see the tabs, which is going to
be promotions tab or any of the other
tabs at 11%. Then the spam rate at
30.9%.
So right there, that's showing that
30.9% of our emails are landing in the
spam folder. So we got a bit of a spam
problem. Ideally, where we want to be is
under 5%. We want to be inbox at at
least like 60 to 80%. No matter what,
you're going to get some tabs and
potentially a little bit of spam, and
that's okay. Really, where we'd like to
be is as high up in the inbox as
possible. You can see the IP reputation
right here. You can see the different
block lists that we're on right here
with these different IPs. It's not
anything too much to be concerned of. I
haven't seen any of these be a long-term
issue for us, but you can see any issues
here. And then they have support that
will help you, but I haven't really had
to do anything serious for any of these.
The thing that's super helpful here is
looking at the spam filters. You can see
the Google spam filter right here. We're
getting uh spam right here. And so you
can click for a little bit more
information and it'll have a ton of
information for you to help out. And
then it'll go even further in your
location, where your location is, and
the different types of domains and where
you're landing in spam. So you can see
the US popular right here, which is
going to be the majority of the emails,
40% spam right here with 55% inbox. Then
you can see the different locations
depending on where your demographics
are. And we can see right here the
different providers as well and where
we're having some issues. You can see
Amazon versus like G Suite. So the
actual like Gmail sort of emails uh
right here that were bought from G
Suite. And essentially a crap ton of
stuff right here. It's going to give you
a ton of different information in terms
of like what you can do in action items.
And so if there are any like big issues,
then you can go in and kind of just like
make the adjustments as you need. But if
anything isn't like big red and super
scary, then it's probably just an email
engagement metrics thing. But it's super
helpful here to be able to see how often
you're landing in spam. And what I like
to do is do one Glock apps test every
single month. And then you can track how
your spam placement rate is affected
over time. So if you're anything above
20 to 30% spam rate, then you've got a
real issue. And as long as there isn't
anything clearly wrong that Glock Apps
has pointed out to you, then there are a
couple of other things that could be
preventing us from landing in the main
inbox and landing in the spam folder,
which we'll get into. So now you know if
you are landing in spam, which means
it's time to start fixing it or
preventing any issues that could get you
there. Now there are three factors that
I like to look at to fix this. First,
you're going to have your technical
setup. This is your demark, your CNA,
your txt stuff, all the technical
about your domain. They
essentially prove that your emails are
sent from your domain and that you're
secure and trusted domain. You're not
sending spam. Second, you have your
sending patterns, which just means how
often you're sending and at what scale
and when. because blasting out emails to
hundreds of thousands of people randomly
and inconsistently looks spammy to inbox
providers. And then lastly, you have
your email engagement, open rates, click
rates, reply rates, and then your spam
complaint rates. These are the holy
grail because they are directly telling
inbox providers if people enjoy your
emails or see them as spam. Now, these
three factors make up what I like to
call your domain credit score. Think of
it like a financial credit score, except
instead of banks trusting you with
money, it's with inbox providers
trusting you with landing into the inbox
and contributing to their customers
experience. And focusing on those three
factors is what gives you a trustworthy
score. Now, here's what you're going to
make sure you do so that you can nail
all three of these. Starting with the
technical setup. Now, depending on your
email platform, it'll tell you like
directly inside of Clavio if you are
having any issues with the technical
setup of your domain. like this one for
Clavio. You can see with this big yellow
bar up at the top, some inbox providers
may block your emails and new sender
requirements. This needs attention. And
so you can see that we've done two of
the requirements right here. But adding
demark to our domain is something that
we need to do. And Claio has
automatically detected this. And so it's
super easy to set up demark for your
domain. You have to go into your
records, whatever your domain provider
is. You need to add something super
small. And this is literally just all
you have to paste into your provider
right inside here. So, there's a video
right here inside of Claio and it'll
help you set this up inside your DNS.
Super duper easy. And then you need
CNAME and TXT records, but Omnisign and
Clavio and these inbox providers will
automatically add this to your domain.
And so, that's really it. Usually, for
most brands, it's Demar that they don't
have. And you can check if you have
Demar by going into Glock apps again,
and you can go to Demar Analyzer right
here, and you can enter your domain and
see what your Demark is, if it's set.
Essentially, it's just yes or no. Do you
have it? If you don't have it, add it.
and you should be all good to go. And to
be quite honest, it's pretty rare to
have any technical issues with domains.
It's rarely the issue when I'm analyzing
a brand that has a inbox placement
problem. Next, we want to talk about our
send volume consistency and warming. So,
imagine your Gmail looking at a domain
that's sending emails. And this domain
hasn't sent an email in 6 months, or
maybe it's sent like one or two emails,
then all of a sudden comes back onto the
scene and sends an email to 250,000
people randomly. You think that Gmail is
going to like that or trust that or
think that it's not spammy? No. They
view that as spammy. Or what about a
different situation? Let's say your
Gmail and you're looking at a domain
that's sending emails and you see a new
domain that has never sent an email just
randomly sends an email blast to 100,000
people just randomly. It's a new domain
that was just bought and now it sends an
email to 100,000 people. Again, that
looks spammy. They want to protect their
customer experience. So, they want to
make sure that you're a reputable sender
before they really start landing you in
the main inbox. And so if you have any
sort of deliverability issues or spam
issues, the number one way to fix this
is by going through a warming period. A
warming period is essentially starting
small with how many emails that you're
sending and slowly opening up your list
and starting to slowly send to more
people cuz you don't just want to come
onto the scene and send to 200,000
people. No, we want to start by sending
to 500 people and then a,000 and then
2500 and then 5,000. And then we want to
get good engagement metrics on these
small emails so that with every send
we're building up our reputation,
getting good engagement metrics,
increasing the volume until eventually
we have our reputation built up with our
inbox providers. And so you can do this
in two scenarios. Number one, if you
have been sending emails, but you're
getting really bad inbox placement, say
you did a Glock apps test and you're
landing majority in the spam folder,
then you can absolutely do a warming
period. Stop sending to the thousands
and thousands of people that you've been
sending to to all your sends. you're
going to have to cut it down and for at
least a few weeks send to a small list
to boost up your reputation. Your
revenue is going to take a hit in the
short term, but in the long term, you're
going to build up your reputation. And
then the second scenario is for new
brands or new sending domains and you
haven't sent an email and you need to
build up a reputation. That's when
you're going to have a warming situation
again. And I've warmed so many different
accounts, domains, like I can't even
tell you. And it's a really
straightforward process. And I'll walk
through an example with you. Okay, so
let's take a look at this example in
warming period that we did for this
brand. So this brand had like 50,000
profiles, but they hadn't sent any
campaigns before. And these profiles
were people who had bought from their
brand in the past. All they had was like
a simple welcome email and then like an
abandoned cart email. So that was slowly
sending emails, but we couldn't just
blast to 50,000 people. But let's take a
look at what we did. So here are the
first two campaigns that we sent. June
20th and June 30th. You can see how
little people we sent to. we sent to
a,000 people in both of these right
here. And what we did is we created this
engaged segment of anybody who had
opened an email in the past 30 days.
That's going to show people who are
interested in your brand and have
recently engaged with an email, proving
that they will open emails if you send
them. And so this first email, the first
one that we sent out, we only got 30%
opens. It's pretty standard for a new
domain and a new blast to do that. But
hey, look at that. $974 and a very high
click rate. And you can see with our
next scent, we actually had over a
double in the open rate right here. We
started to land in the inbox just a
little bit more just from this. And then
we can go into our next campaign. So we
were sending to a,000 people for those
campaigns. And let's look here. So you
can see how often we're sending July
2nd, 4th, 6th, 7th, 10th. We have to
send multiple times per week so that
Gmail sees our consistency. They see
we're building up a reputation. So what
we do here again, we send to a,000
people and we're getting 65% opens.
Okay, cool. Now we're going to expand
the list a little bit. Now we send it to
2,000 people. We opened it up a little
bit with a slightly different list. You
can see right here, okay, we go down to
40% opens, 23% opens. But hey, we don't
panic. We stick to the process. We
slightly adjust our segmentation and
make sure we're sending to people who
are engaging. We keep sending. We lower
it down to,000 people. We get 78% opens.
Then we send it to 2,000. We go back
down again. But slowly, we're just going
up and down with each send. And mind
you, we're getting a lot of revenue in
the process as well. And slowly, we
start opening things up right up here to
now we're sending to 3,000 people. And
we're getting 47% 50% opens. And then
every time we expand the list, we get a
little bit of push back. But then we
start to build it back up again. And
let's go now to this next month right
here. And then now, okay, we've started
to get a reputation. We're starting to
get a little bit more ambitious with how
many people we're sending to. And then
now we're getting 27% opens to a larger
list. Now we're sending to over 10,000
people to 20,000 people. And then boom,
now we kind of have an engaged list of
about like 4,000 5,000 people who are
opening our emails. So now we started
off sending to 1,000 people and now
we're sending to 10,000 people and
getting 43% opens. You can see some of
the performance on these campaigns
getting 11 grand, 16 grand, 7 grand. Now
we're still not in a great spot because
we have some of these lower open rate in
click rate campaigns. And so we made
sure to tighten things up and be
conservative with how often we're
sending and really trying to send to
just highly engaged people and try to
get as many 40 to 50% open rate
campaigns that we can. But now we're
feeling good. We have a decently warmed
up account and we're happy with where we
were. We just engaged at least 10,000
new people for this brand and we were
generating multi6 figures every single
month for them. Now I can fast forward
to today and let's look at these
engagement metrics. Over 60% opens,
getting 14,000 to 15,000 opens for each
campaign. You can see the performance on
all of them. So that's where you have to
be patient. Just trust the process. Even
if you're not getting amazing open rates
and click rates as you're ramping up,
just stick with it and slowly over time
it'll go up. Here's another example
where we were quite ambitious in terms
of who we were sending to. And this was
a brand who was transferring from
another platform, Mailchimp, into
Clavio. So what we did was we took
Mailchimp, we took just small groups of
people and we took the most engaged
email addresses on Mailchimp. So we took
people who have opened multiple emails
in the past 14 days and that's who we
sent to the first thousand people. And
you can see these people recognized us
and you can see how engaged they were.
And you can see then as we were getting
these open rates, we just got super
ambitious. we're getting good engagement
rates. And so we kept increasing the
amount of people we were sending to to
the point where the next month,
especially with since we're sending
emails every single day, we could ramp
things up to then we were sending to
hundreds of thousands of people and
getting these numbers. So sometimes you
can just kind of feel it out. And really
like a good signal for you is if you're
getting 60% opens on multiple sends in a
row, then it's time to expand your list.
And once you've warmed up your account,
you just want to focus on consistency.
Have your automations live. Have them
firing. Those are emails that will get
good engagement. your welcome flow and
your abandonment flows and just be
consistent. Try to send at least two
email campaigns per week. If you go
dormant for a bit, then you run the risk
of Gmail losing the credibility that you
have with them. So, make sure that
you're doing that. The third factor here
is your engagement optimization. Getting
better open rates, click rates, less
spam complaint rates. There really two
things you can do if you want to improve
your engagement rates. The first thing,
send better emails. seems so stupid, but
if people receive emails that they like,
they're not going to report you as spam
and they're going to continue opening
and clicking your emails. So, make sure
you create actually good content. Use
memes in your emails like this. This is
super fun. Have like funny like Windows
sort of stuff here where it looks like a
vintage like Windows computer. Have
awesome looking design on your emails
that visually engage with the customer
and give them dopamine. And of course,
have fun with it. Things like this comic
email that my team put together. Send
good content that's fun and people will
stay subscribed. and make sure you're
rewarding them every now and again with
sales and exclusive offers. It does
help, but don't spam them with offers
because then they're going to get
annoyed and then they're going to
unsubscribe. So, first, send better
content. And I have plenty of YouTube
videos showing you how to create better
content, good copy, and design. So, make
sure you check those out. But the second
thing is your segmentation. Who are you
sending emails to? Never, never, never
just send an email blast to your whole
list. No, we need to use strong
segmentation and only send to people who
are actively opening and engaging with
our emails. And so for all of your
sends, you want to make sure you're
using some sort of engaged list. So what
we want to do is we want to create a
segment of someone can receive email
marketing. Then we want to add something
like they have opened an email at least
once. We typically our standard is 90
days. If someone's opened an email in
the last 90 days or you can optionally
include this as well if you're in a good
place with deliverability. You can also
do what someone has done has been active
on site at least once in the past 90
days or somebody what somebody has done
has placed an order at least once in the
past 90 days. You could even extend this
if you want depending on your open
rates. But typically what we like to do
is honestly for an engagement list you
could literally just do open demast once
in the past 90 days. And then for big
events like Black Friday or a big
monthly sale, sure, go ahead and blast
it to the whole list. But we want to
make sure that consistently we're
getting at least 50% opens. Because if
we only send to people who are actively
engaging with our emails, then they're
going to continue engaging with our
emails and help our sender reputation.
If I could sum up how to fix your
deliverability in just 10 seconds, it is
use this segment. Just someone has
opened email at least once in the past
90 days and just send emails to these
people. And then once a month, you can
expand a send to your whole list to try
to get those people into the engage list
right here. Cuz say you send an email to
your whole list. If somebody opens that
email, then they're going to be added to
the segment and start receiving the next
emails that you're sending. So, open
rates, just shoot for above 50%, click
rates, as long as you are not below
0.1%,
you're generally going to be fine.
Obviously, the more the better. For
click rates, I like to be at at least
0.5% or above. And that's really all you
have to worry about. For other metrics,
I like to have unsubscribe rates below
0.3%. It doesn't really affect
deliverability, but it's something to
consider. And then spam complaint rates,
I like to have them at .001% or below.
You're really going to get some issues
if you start getting to 0.05% 05% or
above. So, if you have any issues like
that, start using more tight engaged
lists and you might want to consider
slowing down your send volume. So, start
sending to your engaged list, create
better content, and monitor your inbox
placement with Glock apps. That is what
you have to do to be on top of your
email deliverability. And that's exactly
how to fix your email deliverability in
2026. But deliverability is only one
small part of getting email marketing
revenue and getting your email platform
generating you a ton of money. So,
if you want to learn the complete email
and SMS strategy that we use to generate
$500,000 per month for this brand, watch
this video and I will see you